okay good morning everyone let's go
final projects weekly reports grappling
with physics engines how's everything
going questions comments verbal
abuse verbal abuse go ahead what's the
difference
between Robotics and reinforcement great
question okay so last time when we were
talking about Twitch Plays robotics I
mentioned in passing re enforcement
learning with human feedback lots of
terms here let's start with the L
learning implies modifications to
synaptic weights usually it implies
nothing else sometimes it's also meant
to be modification of synaptic weights
and learning rules uh in synapses
sometimes it's learning synaptic weights
and the activation functions in
neurons sometimes it's used to mean
optimization or change to cognitive
architecture but usually that's it
that's the boundary of where learning
ends so learning compared to Evolution
what's the main difference at least from
our
perspective changing the body as well so
lectures 2 through 26 inclusive we're
going to finally get to what makes
evolutionary robotics particularly
distinctive or unique compared to most
other approaches to robotics where the
physical structure of the of the
autonomous machine is fixed and we are
learning something about its control
policy or all of machine learning and AI
which tends to focus on learning changes
to synaptic weights the underlying
implicit philosophy which I'm trying to
make explicit for you all in this course
is the assumption that if we want to
create autonomous and Ma and safe
machines here in the real world we need
to think carefully or automatically
design both body and brain together
which again is sort of the underlying
idea of the much older concept of
embodied cognition that's the difference
so the reinforcement in reinforcement
learning for those that know
reinforcement learning what does the
reinforcement part mean of reinforcement
learning reward and Punishment reward
and Punishment which is usually a single
number
which is again not unlike a lot of what
we've seen in all of the evolutionary
robotics experiments we've talked about
in this course we're often boiling down
the quality of the behavior of the robot
to a single number how far it moves to
the right how well it shakes a block up
and down you name it that's not always
true when we talked about the
transferability project which I
apologize we weren't here in person for
but in the transferability project we
saw
multi-objective optimization in which
the objective function which is
measuring the quality of the robot and
its Behavior there were actually
multiple numbers that we were trying to
optimize simultaneously often in
reinforcement learning there's a single
number which is how good or how poorly
the robot or the or the AI model is
doing it whatever we want it to do
that's not always the case does that
answer your question okay all right any
other questions about the final project
things that you're struggling with I
have reviewed uh I have reviewed all of
the those of you that are taking the
course for graduate credit I reviewed
all your final projects and given you
back feedback everything looks uh good
one thing that I saw mentioned in many
of the projects was wanting to do uh
Collision detection between multiple
robots or the differentiable robot
trying to manipulate an object
in the differentiable assignments
obviously you are writing your own
physics engine from scratch and we have
a minimal Collision detection and
resolution algorithm for the undergrads
what's just to give them an update on
what's going on there uh in the
differentiable assignments you're making
a mass spring robot meaning the robot is
made up of a whole bunch of Point masses
masses that are placed at particular
points in
space and then we're
connecting neighboring uh masses
together with springs and adding Motors
to make the Springs increase and
decrease in length Collision detection
at the moment is just whether or not the
center of any of the masses passes below
the ground plane this would not be a
collision this would be a collision when
this occurs you're applying a force to
push the object back up or ignore or
canceling out anym pushing into the
ground it's about as simple a collision
detection and resolution algorithm as we
can imagine if you I I think one or a
few of you propose trying to do a swarm
in the differentiable simulator which is
perfectly
fine how do you detect collisions
between this robot and this robot and
resolve those
collisions any
ideas if you can cast your mind back to
lecture six or seven where we talked
about physics engines
ideas
C of rad okay we could look we could
look to see whether uh these two objects
have collided and if the distance
between any pairs are less than 2 R the
radii of these circles then you've got a
collision which is pretty good but what
happens if you get to this
situation looks like a collision to me
but it is not detected by your Collision
detection algorithm other
ideas you could also like simple you
just have like just call like just
Define Center of this that triangle and
make a circle around it and those kind
of like make them all like one a circle
each okay you this is a good idea uh
perhaps this is based on the idea of
collision boxes which we actually saw
when we talked about physics engines a a
great idea also a little bit problematic
there are edge cases in which it's not
going to capture certain things but a
good a good start okay the point I
wanted to make is this is not trivial
there is a whole literature in uh in
computer graphics and physics engines
research about exactly this how do you
detect and resolve collisions
you don't have a lot of time left in the
semester so allow me to make a
suggestion which is modify modify the
radi of the point sources to be just
large enough that they're always in uh
they're always touching their neighbors
that's not always going to be true
because the length of these Springs is
sometimes changing but you can easily
set the radise so most of the time these
objects are in collision with one
another which makes collisions with
other robots relatively easy going back
to what Nate mentioned you can just look
to see whether any pair of objects one
from one robot and one from the other
have a distance of less than two R then
you can count that as a collision and
apply a resolution which is to push them
apart you can either add those forces to
the objects to the points themselves or
can add those forces to the spring you
can assume there's a force that's
pushing the Springs apart it doesn't
really matter just some suggestions for
those that are wrestling with Collision
detection and resolution in the
differentiable
simulators okay any other tips and
tricks I can offer anything else that's
problematic at the
moment going once going twice okay all
right so back to lecture uh we are
trying to finish up our SEC our long
section here on open challenges in the
field and I was walking you through the
Twitch Plays robotics project last time
which is an attempt to try and scale up
Robotics and in and scaling It Up by
involving more and more humans in
directing using human feedback to direct
how robots evolve I realized that there
was actually a video example of twitch
embedded in the schedule so just to
refresh your memory of how this works
here's an example of Twitch Plays
robotics running we expose the crowd to
the worm and the quadruped we invited
the crowd in the upper right panel to
propose things that they thought they
could teach the robots and you just saw
one chatter vote for crawl forward which
seems promising and down here if I speed
this up a little bit you can see that
their vote to teach the robot to walk
forward has now been sent to the robot
and the Violet robot we are trying to
determine whether it is walking forward
and we will see in a moment that a
couple people voted for no The Violet
robot is not walking forward okay you
can go and watch this video snippet it's
embedded in the schedule so just as a
reminder for how the Twitch Plays
robotics project works this is what the
crowd
saw and as a reminder of the data set
we've got these two robots R subz the
worm R sub one the quadraped we're evalu
the crowd is posing a whole bunch of
commands plain English to the robots for
each one of those commands that was sent
to the robot some of these commands
collected uh some of these commands on
the robot we were running that robot
with a whole bunch of random controllers
so the ends are random sets of Random
synap weights that were sent to the
robot while the robot was quote unquote
hearing a particular set of commands and
for some of these random controllers
that were running on a robot under a
given command the crowd provided a bunch
of reinforcement either yes or no we
tallied up all the yes votes and stored
that as an integer in S Sub one and we
tallied up all the no votes and stored
that in s Subzero that's the data set
okay just to remind you for where we
were we reviewed some of the statistics
about what we got back the most common
command issued by the crowd was jump so
in the results we're going to see now
you're going to see how and whether the
robot managed to ground the symbols J MP
in its own sensor motor experience okay
I ended last
time by mentioning this filtering step
down here among all the 56,000
controllers random controllers who ran
on the robot we took out the subset of
random controllers that ran on the robot
when the crowd was issuing the command
jump to the robot and then we further
chose from there the subset of
controllers that were issued on the
robot when it heard JP and somebody
there was at least one vote the sum of
the no votes and the yes votes was
greater than zero at least one yes vote
and at least or at least one no vote so
far so good okay so now we have in hand
a bunch of controllers we went back and
ran all of those random controllers on
the robot and this was offline the the
users were not the crowd was not seeing
this we collected all of the sensor data
that was generated by those random
control rers and we took just touch
sensor information and stored it in a
binary Matrix so you can see here for
the worm the worm is made up of One Two
Three Links in the binary Matrix we have
one two three
columns each row corresponds to one time
step in the simulation and we just
recorded whether or not that touch
sensor was firing here it was zeros and
ones and your Cod base I think it's
minus one and plus one doesn't really
matter so now for every random
controller that was executed during jump
for which we have some feedback from the
humans we also have this felt experience
this is what the robot felt when the
crowd was saying yes you're jumping or
no you're not Jing so far so good
okay okay sorry just to orient you we're
on stage three of this four stage
project in stage three here we're going
to try and get the robot to learn a
relationship between what it felt the
command and how the crowd
reacted
okay okay
sorry having problems navigating this
morning okay
ah we'll get
there okay all right for the worm there
were a total of
1,038 random controllers during jump
that received at least one piece of
sensor uh reinforcement
feedback so for each one of the we have
a
1,038 of these binary matrices the worm
robot had
1,038 unique
experiences and for each of those
experiences we take all the positive and
negative reinforcement and we collapse
this down to a single uh a single value
which ranges between minus1 and plus
one an O of minus one is uniform
negative reinforcement
zero yes votes three no votes or zero
yes votes 17 no votes
unanimous negative reinforcement an O of
plus one is unanimous positive
reinforcement zero NOS 14 yeses zero NOS
131 yeses that's an O of plus one so an
O of zero is
a neutral right split votes four yeses
for NOS 17 NOS 17 yeses so we have
1,038 o values that correspond to each
of the
1038 uh binary
matrices so far so good okay so let's
have a look at the moment let's have a
look at the relationship between the
each o and its corresponding
T okay
on the vertical axis here you can see
that the vertical axis ranges between
minus1 and + one and on the vertical
label here it says normalized
reinforcement signal so this is O over
here you'll have to trust me there are
1,038 Green Dots here so each dot
corresponds to the result of one random
controller running on the worm
robot T is a matrix so so on the
horizontal axis here the grad student uh
Joey who worked on this project she took
that uh touch sensor Matrix and
collapsed it down into a single number
which is the proportion of time that the
robots spent on the ground for those of
you that are working on the Up Up and
Away project this should start to sound
familiar how do you think Joey collapsed
this uh binary Matrix down into a single
number percentage of times spent on the
ground we've got three columns for each
of the three body parts that make up the
worm and a thousand rows that correspond
to the Thousand time steps in the
simulation the number the number of time
steps the number of rows that are all
zeros exactly right so the proportion of
all zero rows in that t
Matrix that becomes a single floating
floating point value
between zero and one and she plotted
that on the horizontal axis here now
Joey the grad student has stepped in and
she's made an assumption about the
robots felt experience she came up with
this way of collapsing the binary Matrix
so we're cheating a little bit we we
want to keep humans out of the loop but
we wanted to see for ourselves first
whether we could see any relationship
between the behavior of the RO robot so
the further to the right the points are
the more time the robot spent on the
ground and the vertical axis which is
the way in which the humans provided
feedback to that
behavior is there a
relationship see some of you sort of
squinting and may maybe
nodding what's going on here
did the 434 people we got feedback from
were they just Bots were they just
typing things in at
random coration line drawn through here
the data I'm very confused by the number
of
one okay there's lots there's lots to
see here in this
figure
so we plotted this trend line here
although it's a little difficult to see
there is a negative correlation here
generally speaking the further to the
right a point is the further down that
point tends to be you can see there's
kind of a cluster down here and another
cluster up here not so many points up
here and not so many points down here a
little bit of a negative correlation is
this good new good news for us
investigators or bad
news this is good
because people
say not they didn't the more the robot
jumped the more of the proportion of the
time it's spent on the ground the more
negative feedback that crowd tended to
give the more often the crowd was saying
no you're not jumping so the fact that
we could fit this line and it was a
negative slope that's what we were
hoping for it worked of course it's not
a perfect correlation if it was a per
sorry it's not a perfect
anti-correlation if it was a perfect
anti-correlation what would you expect
to see in this
figure it's not so you don't see
it
perfect diagonal you'd expect to see all
the green lines along some uh diagonal
with negative slope that's definitely
not what's going on what a surprise
humans tend not to always agree uh with
one
another Nate mentioned he was confused a
little bit about the fact that most of
the O's most of the summed reinforcement
was either a perfect one or a perfect
perfect minus one and there's also kind
of a cluster here at zero why why not a
more uniform spread along the vertical
axis think about the humans that are
involved in
this few vs few votes so for the vast
majority of these th a little over a
thousand controllers there was usually
only one piece of reinforcement either
there was only one person on the stream
at that time or only one one felt
sufficiently emboldened to offer a yes
or a
no kind
of like it's kind of jumping but
everyone else say yes so I'll just say
yes because everyone else great
observation anecdotally we saw a lot of
that during times um on the stream when
there were quite a few people on it we
would see things like yes yes yes and
then one person would say no and the
others would say why did you say no and
the person would typee in why they
thought it was no and then sometimes
they would change their vote you
definitely saw chatter among the uh the
Chatters and sometimes they would change
their vote seemingly in response to peer
pressure again this is all anecdotal
somewhere we have the raw transcript of
every single chat and everything that
everyone uh said scrubbed of any uh
personal details all anonymized if
you're interested shoot me an email I
should be able to dig it up if It's a
Wonderful document to read okay so this
was at least this was us sort of doing a
sanity check again baby steps like your
final project making sure that there
might actually be a pattern here for the
robot to learn an ability to ground this
symbol in its own felt experience and to
ground it Guided by human
feedback
okay these were the or so controllers
under jump for the worm we had about the
same number of random controllers
executed on the quadraped for the same
set of symbols jump what's going on in
the case of the
quadropad different set of controllers
different body plan same set of
symbols no idea whether this was the
same set of humans or not what's going
on there's a lot more neutral ones a lot
more neutral ones I think you're right
could be here they might just be a
little bit more spread out
possibly uh shifted to the right so
unfortunately when we plotted the
horizontal axis down here the grad
student did not keep the same horizontal
range this is a a rookie mistake when
you plot everything if you create
multiple plots for us please make sure
to keep the horizontal and vertical axis
ranges about the same for exactly this
reason often we want to look whether a
pattern stays the same or differs across
multiple figures little hard to do here
because of the shift in the range of
values on the horizontal axis so
apologies you're going to have to do a
little bit of more a little bit more
cognitive work here this morning
so one non- difference one thing that is
the same is there's a little bit of
anti-correlation again it's not very
strong but it's there so that's good
news that means that for at least two
different body plans there seems to be a
relationship between human feedback and
the felt experience of the
robot other patterns you've
noticed top there's not as much of a
clump in the top
left
yeah a little bit of a weaker
anti-correlation
ground absolutely so the points for the
quadruped tend to be shifted a little
bit further to the right why do you
think that
is harder for this morphology to jump
yep exactly
okay imagine uh imagine that the robot
had actually run some machine learning
algorithm not a machine learning
algorithm had run an algorithm that
found this anti-correlation between its
own experiences between all the
horizontal positions of these points and
the vertical positions of these points
every time the robot hears
JP and has this particular
experience the crowd says actually
uniform
negative and over here and over here so
imagine the robot has now discovered
this particular line what does JP mean
to the
robot some of you may have been
following the dis public discourse
around whether chaty PT understands
language let's have the same discussion
about our worm robot here does it
understand what jump
means and if it
does what does JP mean to the
robot stage to the left of this graph
you mean for the robot okay okay that's
one
idea spend as little time on the ground
as possible how does the robot know to
do
that make your touch so there's
something about points being further to
the left seems to correlate or have
something to do with JP but what exactly
does it have to do
with
JP what does JP mean to the
robot I tend to put scare quotes around
all these things understand predict mean
no scare quotes today what does it
really mean to the robot literally still
random controllers these are still
random controllers absolutely there's no
Evolution here there's a little bit of
learning it's learned that there's a
relationship between the horizontal
position of each of these controllers
and the vertical position of these
controllers it's not
arbitrary that hasn't happened yet true
good point yes sorry this line however
we whatever we want to call it it's
found this
relationship between the horizontal
points and the vertical points this is
just linear regression if you want to
call that learning or not we'll say the
the robot has run linear
regression on on this data to which it
has
access let's say the robot is still
thinking about
jump and it executes yet another random
controller and that controller causes it
to spend o 40% of the time on the ground
the robot just does something
arbitrarily and it's able to now place
that point horizontally it says okay
that particular controller caused me to
spend 40% of the time on the
ground no humans
around what is the robot thinking at
this point how does it estimate the
vertical position of this
point based on the line so it has this
line the robot has discovered that there
is a
anti-correlation between the rightward
position of the point and how far down
it is the robot spends 40% of the time
and uses this line to try and reason
about
jump the robot
predicts that the point would lie here
on the line if you were able to ask the
robot
now what would it tell you about this
particular Behavior it just
performed probably a jump uh it would
say probably a jump but we're not quite
there yet right we're trying to stay
grounded in the data it's got JP it
spent 40% of the time on the
ground getting closer it did a good job
how does it know that it did a good
job three it says if there were people
around more often than not they would do
this if the robot runs a random
controller and it spends 100% of the
time on the ground what would the robot
tell you about that
controller relative to
jump if there were humans around they'd
give more than unanimous negative
reinforcement whatever that possibly
means yeah if you've ever spent any time
around dogs they'll do something and
then they'll look at
you and you can sometimes see in their
eyes they know they know how you feel
about what they did yeah so for this
robot trying to keep things literally
and metaphorically grounded for a moment
if we want to try and talk about ju we
want to talk about the relationship
between
JP the literal felt experience of the
robot touch sensor data jump and touch
sensor data and quantitative human
feedback the robot can determine that
there is a relationship between these
three things and again you can form your
own opinions my opinion is that that is
what jump means to the robot that is
understanding jump it's maybe not a
profound understanding but the robot can
more or less tell you or try to show you
it knows what JP means by doing a bunch
of things and making predictions about
human feedback or social repercussions
of its
actions everybody see that you don't
necessarily need to agree with me we can
all disagree about what it means to
understand language that's a different
discussion this is the one of the
embodied approaches to trying to
understand language or enable robots to
understand language
questions
comments differing
opinions ask like you trying to get the
robot like I think about the robot would
get itself to like the highest jump
number and they like oh jump I'll just
keep redoing that number you know like
they right
eventually it it could absolutely right
it could try and act on its knowledge
here we're not trying to get the robot
to jump we're just trying to see whether
the the robot could discover or find a
relationship between these three things
symbols sensory information human rep
social repercussions to its actions yeah
it's jump according to Joey the grad
student right Joey determined that jump
means the proportion of time for which
the robot spends on the ground as we
talked about last time in the up away
project there are other human
definitions we could come up with
jumping and you can see from the actual
vertical Heights of these points the
humans here also don't agree about what
counts is jumping and doesn't and isn't
jumping yeah so so it's a question about
our goal so our goal here was
this we maybe we could have done that we
wanted we wanted to try and introduce as
little bias as possible the moment we
make a fitness function for jumping and
evolve robots for that jumping function
then it's the crowd deciding whether or
not that's jumping and they either agree
with us who wrote down the Fitness
function or not there's still bias here
again because of Joey's decision about
how to collapse this Matrix we're going
to remove that last bit of bias or at
least the last bit we can see in a
moment there's one more data there's one
more set of results I want to show you
but I just want to make sure we
understand what the our goal was here in
this project symbols sensation social
feedback yeah okay so if you're willing
to entertain the notion that
this line the fact that there is an
anti-correlation between touch
information and O normalized human
feedback is it the same is the
understanding of jump the same for the
worm and the quadruped do both of these
robots I'll put the scary quotes back on
do both robots understand J JP in the
same
way does it mean the same thing to these
two robots
given the definition of understanding we
just provide
it I see some of you doing this South
Indian nod right kind of kind of yes
kind of
no why kind of yes kind of no I also
agree kind of yes kind of no see the
same Trend but the data points are all
different absolutely so again if you
were able to ask these robots and you
can't ask them but if you were they'd
say yeah mostly we agree it's an
anti-correlation between the amount of
time we spend on the ground and the
number of no votes we get back but we
disagree on the uh on the y- axis
intercept of these lines if you look at
so this this anticorrelation here
intercepts a little bit above zero this
one intercepts more more a little bit
higher it's not much but it's a
difference we I found this interesting
because it immediately means for these
two robots jump does not mean the same
thing now that's either a quirk of the
particular humans that
reinforced this robot and the particular
humans that reinforced this robot maybe
it's an artifact of the fact that they
were running slightly different
controllers maybe it's an artifact of
the fact that they have different
bodies maybe it's a little bit of all of
the above we don't know we haven't done
that study
yet for me the more interesting outcome
would be because of their
bodies in retrospect maybe that's not so
surprising if you have a different body
plan jumping is going to mean different
things to different people or different
things yeah so far so good any questions
about this particular set of
results okay last bit and then we'll
move on to collective
intelligence as I mentioned Joey has
introduced her bias here by her
definition of what jumping is the number
of rows in the T in the binary Matrix
that are all zeros let's try and remove
Joey's
bias the next thing we're going to do
here is we're going to actually do some
learning so back to Cam's comment here
we created a very simple neural network
this is not a neural network that's
controlling the robot that part's
already done we've got the thousand
controller neural controllers for the
worm about another thousand random
neural controllers for the quadrip we're
going to create a little neural network
here that has three input neurons and
one output neuron with one recurrent
connection so we've got a total of four
synapses which means we need four
weights W for synaptic
weights we're going to take each of the
Thousand binary touch sens sensor
matrices which remember have three
columns corresponding to the three touch
sensors in the robot and a thousand rows
corresponding to what values those touch
sensors had at each of the Thousand time
steps in the simulation when the robot
was running that controller we're going
to take each of those 3 by, matricies
and push them through one of these
random neural networks
we got a lot of random neural networks
on the go now we've got the Thousand
random controllers for the worm thousand
random controllers for the quadrip one
random neural network that's going to
digest each of the
Thousand binary matrices from the worm
row by row we take the first row of the
first binary Matrix plug it in propagate
down to the output neuron where we're
going to get some value between minus1
and + one we used the 10h activation
function which is going to make sure
that this value when we read it out is
between minus one and plus one so far so
good we take the second row in the first
random controller plug that into the
input layer push it through this neural
network and because of the recurrent
connection it updates the output value
of this neural network take the third
row push it through fourth fifth sixth
sth thousandth row push it through this
neural network and when we're done
pushing all thou the Thousand rows of
one random neural controller through
this network we read out this value and
I'm sorry it's hard to see here we're
going to interpret this value as o Prime
what do you think o Prime
means this is kind of shorthand from
machine learning what is O what do you
think o Prime
means resp the predicted crowd response
exactly so in my little cartoon example
here let's assume for that random neural
controller the crowd gave back an actual
o of minus point8 whatever that is seven
down seven no votes and one yes vote
mostly folks believed that for that
particular controller the robot was not
jumping the prediction of this neural
network which is the robots neural
network this is its this is the social
part of its brain if you like it's
trying to learn how to predict how the
crowd's going to respond to what it
did in this particular random neural
network it makes a prediction of
0.25 pretty far from minus8 remember all
these O's and O primes range between
minus1 and plus one this random neural
network has low social intelligence it
has not predicted the crowd very well so
far so good okay we are not changing
these four synaptic weights we're
leaving them as they are we're going to
take the second the second binary Matrix
for the worm reset the output neuron
refresh everything
push it through again get a second o
Prime push the third binary Matrix
through get a third o Prime push all
1,28 random controllers or all
1,28 uh Sensations through this neural
network and we have
1,038 o primes and we have a, and 38 O's
what do you think we do
next
not quite
close the mean error calculate the mean
squared error calculate the error or the
difference between each o Prime and O
which gives us back 1,038 errors and
then as Nate mentioned we're going to
take the mean of all of those errors on
average how well or how poorly did this
part of the robot's brain its social
intelligence due at predicting how the
crowd would respond to all 1038 things
that the robot did you can imagine that
for four random synaptic weights error
is quite High it doesn't do very well so
we could either use reinforcement
learning or an evolutionary algorithm
doesn't matter uh in this experiment I
think Joey just used an evolutionary
algorithm like you're doing in your
assignments she evolved population
of length for vectors she evolved
populations of synaptic
weights she was evolving using a
particular Fitness function what do you
think that Fitness function
was what do we want this neural network
to
do minimize error right so we're going
to evolve a whole bunch of sets of
synaptic weights searching for a set of
synaptic weights that minimizes means
squared err that this neural network
gets better and better at predicting
social uh human feedback for more and
more of those 1038
behaviors
okay hopefully most of you are wondering
how well did it do how low could we get
that error what I just described is the
training phase we're training this part
of the robot's brain to have high social
intelligence which is low mean squared
air between the op primes and the
O's we get some mean squared
air2 let's say what does that mean what
is point2 mean is that good
bad I have no
idea so in like in most machine learning
experiments we're going to do one last
experiment or one last
test called testing we actually didn't
train this network on all
1038 uh binary matrices we picked a
random subset of them and set them aside
and only trained this network on the
remaining binary
matrices and then after training after
we had tuned these four synaptic weights
we're going to take those held out or
hidden sets of uh binary matrices feed
them through here and get o primes so
we're going to take this trained part of
the robot's brain and we want to see how
much Social intelligence the robot
actually has the robot's going to play
back some of the things that it did it's
going to feed into this trained Network
a bunch of these heldout binary matrices
and how are we going to know we're going
to we're going to get something back
here how are we going to know whether
this network was trained well or not
what would we expect to
see
corly it predicts o correctly but
correctly
how low error low error compared to what
how how low does it need to be to be
able to say yes the robot has actually
learned something about the relationship
between what it did and how the crowd
responded let me flip the question
around for you let's imagine that
training failed these are just all
synaptic weights the robot didn't learn
anything it couldn't find any this
network could not find any relationship
between all the t's and all the O's if
you then took this failed neural network
you don't know that it's failed but you
took it and feeded in new tees that it's
never seen
before what would you expect to get out
here what would the O primes look like
compared to the O's over here what error
would you expect to get during testing
if nothing was learned during
training
similar similar or Worse let's try and
be quantitative here now we want to be
able to say with confidence did this
thing learn or
not
random errors would be higher than a
random
guess of
R the errors of a random guess would be
higher right so if this thing hasn't
learned anything you would expect that
it's going to spit out o primes
arbitrarily between minus1 and + one
comparing that to the O's you would
expect a difference of about one if
you're making random guesses between a
value of minus one and plus one and I'm
picking a value between minus one and
one you have no idea what value I've
picked we played this game over and over
again my o would differ from your o
Prime on average by a distance of about
one
everybody see that
intuition so if this mean squ a if the
differences between the predicted o
primes in the actual O's in the testing
phase are less than one on average then
this thing has learned
something so far so
good okay let's have a look okay all
right let's have a look at this set of
data over here for the simple robot this
is the worm
robot uh green is the actual
experiment and you can see that on
average the error between o Prime and O
was 42 again 42 is a very auspicious
number in our community this was extra
good news for us
okay uh here's the permuted control and
the random control we just talked about
the random control imagine a neural
network in which we intentionally set
all four weights to be random values it
actually guesses the difference is
actually about 47 not a distance of
one something's up what's
up the actual votes AR the actual votes
the O's themselves not the O primes but
the O's are not uniformly distributed
between minus one and one they're
they're very far from that as we saw so
that's a statistical discussion not
relevant to our purposes for now doesn't
actually matter what the valid the
absolute error of random neural networks
is all that matters is that the
predictions of the trained neural
network is lower the error of the
predictions is lower than the random
control uh you can go read the paper we
did a second control the test called the
permuted control we're not going to talk
about that generally speaking green is
lower than blue and red which is our
signal that that neural network that we
just talked about this one is able to
learn a relationship between what the
robot did and how the crowd
responds without us having to make an
assumption about
jumping asterisk kind of we're still
assuming jumping has something to do
with touch information can't get rid of
bias completely but there you go
okay same thing for the complex or
quadrupedal robot it's able it if it's
the one that's training this neural
network this little part of its brain it
can in theory learn a relationship
between what it did and how the crowd is
likely to
respond questions
comments okay we were just talking about
bias plenty of my bias here if we want
machines to understand language or
understand anything about operating here
in the real world with us the best way
in my personal opinion you form your own
opinion is that understanding has to be
grounded in the social part imagine an
autonomous vehicle that suddenly
experiences a surprising event and it's
got to try something new it's far beyond
its training
experience My Hope for that autonomous
vehicle is that that in the few seconds
that it's quote unquote deciding what to
do in this new surprising environment it
is quote unquote thinking about how
humans will feel about what it did in
retrospect in order to act safely in the
real world in my opinion for machines
they need to be able to predict how
people are going to feel about what they
are about to do our dogs are not very
good poker uh players they don't have
good poker f faces you can see it on
their faces they're doing something and
they have a pretty good prediction about
how you're going to feel about what
they're doing social intelligence okay
again that's just my two cents on the
issue
cam has gained this really deep
understanding of these high Lev symbols
and how they interact with it's not
grounded in body interaction but
question mark maybe it is grounded it's
still an open question right not not in
this way but maybe indirectly chat GPT
is inheriting an understanding of humans
and their world not not quite clear yet
in my opinion sorry could we like more
clearly grounded taking that
understanding whatever it is throwing it
in a robot and then trying to ground it
maybe
after understand of Sy great idea make
do do your chaty PT thing have it learn
relationships between every word on the
internet and every other word and then
expose it to sensor motor experiences
and see if it can find a relationship
between what it's learned up here among
the symbols on the internet and what it
feels in the real world
maybe do we do this with our
kids do it the opposite way around right
maybe we have no choice just the way
things go whatever humans are doing it
seems most likely they're doing some
maybe not this but they're learning
something about what they do and what
how mommy and daddy or the caregiver is
going to respond and kids very quickly
get very good at making predictions
about that and then later they start to
read books and go to the library and
read the
internet should we do it which way
should we do it it's not clear does it
matter maybe it doesn't matter okay it's
an interesting time to be thinking about
these Concepts obviously we're in the AI
High summer who knows to be determined
maybe some of you will figure this out
okay all right that's enough about
Twitch Plays uh Robotics and that also
concludes our discussion about all of
the open challenges in the field
obviously there are many we've got uh we
got 20 minutes left so we are going to
dive into the penultimate uh theme of
the course which is collective
robotics like humans for robots there
are many tasks that are difficult or
impossible for a single machine to
perform so for many applications of
Robotics it seems more desirable to
deploy a large number of machines that
can collaborate and cooperate to perform
that task compared to one big complex
machine what might some of those
applications be
where does a swarm of robots make more
sense than one big complicated
machine large if you got a large area to
cover makes obvious sense you'd like to
have a large number of machines other
situations replication of a lot of
things at the same time so if we want to
parallelize effort absolutely yep good
point you want redundancy what do you
mean by wanting redundancy
robem robot rest the
robot achieve absolutely so doing
something over a very large spatial
scale doing things in parallel doing
things robustly if any one member of the
Swarm fails for whatever reason the rest
of the Swarm can carry on just from
those three observations hopefully you
can start to uh appreciate that there
are many many many tasks for which large
numbers of robots are more useful than
one there's no free lunch there's always
a cost what is the cost of Designing
training and deploying large numbers of
simpler machines compared to designing
training and deploying one big complex
complicated machine what's the
cost eff Effectiveness what do you mean
by Effectiveness so like if the robot if
you have a lot of robots but they're too
simple you might not
get great point right we might make them
too simple they just they're not
effective yep what other costs are at
play here material cost do a bunch of
them expensive absolutely so NASA loves
the concept of collective robotics
obviously they have literally a lot of
real estate in this solar system to
explore L they would love to send a
million Rovers to Mars they can't
because you can't put them all in a
rocket right material cost volumetric
cost how much literal 3D Volume does a
robot take up weight and so
on great point the one flaw that takes
out all the machines the other thing
that's scary about deploying very large
numbers of things is that they all have
a common Achilles heel right we I
thought we learned this lesson early on
with computers that a virus uh that can
attack and bring down one operating
system by definition can bring down
every other instance of that operating
system unfortunately we still seem to be
developing Technologies in which there's
only one or a couple of operating
systems in play not a good way to do
things right we've created a
technological monoculture we have a
large number of these things that all
inside look and act almost identically
not a very good idea there's a cost to
making large numbers of things one of
them is making them two similarly makes
the Swarm as a whole vulnerable another
good hidden cost other costs of swarms
imaginary sense exact term
like uh when like a fish has like a
thousand babies like not a lot of them
will survive but like a few will make it
because they're all a little bit
different absolutely right so maybe back
to material costs we might deploy a
large number but most of them fail it's
very wasteful effortful thing to
do why do they need to
communicate
okay maybe so I'm sort of giving away
the punchline here once you get to a
certain level of sophistication in a
collective entity either a group of
humans or insects or machines it usually
makes sense for them to
communicate although I will give my
usual warning here thinking about
thinking is misleading what Collective
tasks actually require explicit
communication which can get away with
implicit communication and which require
no communication at all I just wanted to
pose that question to you we will come
back and tackle that question uh next
week when we get to lecture 21 the issue
of communication obviously communication
can be helpful in very large collectives
we are part of an 8 billion uh
Collective and we tend to communicate
explicitly amongst ourselves not all
large collectives explicitly communicate
or at least not that we're aware of okay
we're going to talk first in lecture 20
about
coordination doing something
collectively together more easily than
one doing it alone and then we'll talk
about communication next week okay all
right so let's start with coordination
and swarms
obviously lots of examples of this uh in
nature here are starlings doing what
staring
do best which Starling is in
charge wouldn't it be great if humans
could do this large coordination no
one's in charge we haven't quite figured
this out yet but clearly it's possible
okay uh flocking in Birds schooling in
fish hting in land organ landbased
organisms it's ubiquitous in nature
mother nature has re
discovered Collective Behavior over and
over and over again the cells inside
your own body coordinate they are
themselves a collective for the obvious
reason that coordination is a good way
to do things often it makes sense for
large numbers of simple things to do
things collectively than to try and do
them on their own much fodder here for
biological inspiration for us trying to
create large numbers of machines that
coordinate their efforts we're still not
that good at it yet okay but we're
working on it here's one of the places
where we started to work on this um this
is work by Craig Reynolds uh who back in
the 1980s he was a computer Graphics
researcher wanted to create computer
Graphics a very simple animals
coordinating their actions so he
simulated some very simple animals these
little triangles these later become
became known as boyss boid D if you
Google boid or boids you'll find all of
this work there in an individual boid it
is simulated inside a simulator this is
1980s no physics engines existed so
Craig had to write all of this himself
for each individual boid in the Boyd
swarm it had a a circle of sensation it
could see a certain distance around
itself and at every point in time each
boid looked inside its circle of
sensation and noted the relative
position of any of its peers that were
inside the sphere so in this example
here the green boid knows that it has
three of its peers on its
left in this particular example here
this different boid at a different point
in time no knows that there are six
peers surrounding it each boid knows the
relative position of all of its
neighbors inside the sphere sensation
and it also knows the heading of all of
its peers that's the little line
emanating from the front of the
triangle at every point in time the boid
was trying to update its new position
and its new orientation how did each boy
decide what its new position and new
orientation was first uh each void would
run three separate functions the first
sub uh function is the separation
function it would compute the relative
positions of its peers and steer or
alter its orientation so it would point
away from its
peers so it's updating comes up with a
little Delta for its orientation it's
going to try and turn away from its
peers before it moves it also runs the
alignment
function which computes the average
heading of all of its peers and the blue
line here represents the mean or average
of all of its peers headings and it this
function returns another Delta in
orientation another suggestion for how
to change orientation so that the
robot's orientation at the next time
step will more closely approximate the
average heading of its peers so an
individual peer has run separation gives
back one suggested change in heading it
runs alignment gets back a second
suggestion in a change of heading and
finally it runs cohesion which again
gives back another Delta which is steer
towards the average position of all of
the peers so we've got three Deltas in
orientation after the boid has run all
three of these functions combines them
sus them and takes the average and then
updates its heading
accordingly every boid runs exactly
these three functions at every time step
in the simulation so far so
good this is the
result again you'll have to excuse the
1980s Graphics here this was
state-ofthe-art at the
time
who's in
charge no one's in
charge why do the boids flow around the
cylinders in their
environment
uh kind of so it's if obviously if you
have a pillar on your left you cannot
have any peers over here if you've got
these peers over here the cohesion
algorithm is going to pull you towards
your peers the boids all view anything
in their environment as a peer they're
very social everything is part of the
flock so they're also being crowded by a
whole bunch of individuals over here
it's not a whole bunch of individuals
it's the cylinder which is causing it to
try and separate or move away from that
cylinder as well right the boids are not
very bright this is all they do they
don't distinguish between cylinders
peers this pier that peer with these
very very simple rules placed into a
large number of these boids you get
relatively
sophistic sophisticated Collective
Behavior
this was shocking at the time and for
some people it's still shocking to see
you can get these relatively elegant
Collective behaviors from relatively
simple rules when you watch the
starlings are a very large school of
fish you immediately realize no one is
in charge but it's easy to start to
think that whatever they're doing is
pretty
sophisticated maybe not remember the
lessons of Valentino brenberg and the
brenberg vehicles often we overthink
things maybe what starlings are doing
and mackerel uh and wilderbeast and so
on are maybe not as complicated as we
think they may not be running this in
their heads but this seems to be enough
to get things that look very much like
hering flocking uh and
schooling okay so this was the 19 uh
this was the
1980s and there we
go I mentioned Craig Reynolds was a
computer Graphics researcher he started
to share his results with other computer
Graphics professionals some of whom
worked for Disney and in the 90s we
started to see movies like
this any movie you watch today that has
any large uh simulated crowd scene it is
running that computer algorithm that
generated that clip for that movie
somewhere down in the depths of that
computer algorithm is the Boyds
algorithm this was the beginning you can
layer on as you can imagine it's quite a
modular uh algorithm you can start to uh
add on other nuances to how each
individual uh in the uh swarm Alters Its
Behavior did we miss it already when the
Wilder beasts are coming down the Box
Canyon they flow around this spur of
rock you know why that particular scene
is in this movie
now okay
okay huge impact on the computer
Graphics community and uh Film Community
as you can imagine also an impact on the
robotics Community this was again a
wakeup call that if we want to colle if
we want to create Collective Behavior
maybe we can write down these uh these
simple functions it turns out in
practice that doing this is tricky not
that easy so what surprise in the 1990s
some Evolution and roboticist came along
and said let's evolve these
functions against a fitness function
that doesn't reward for the behavior of
an individual but rewards for the
behavior of a group so what we're going
to see uh starting today and then into
next week is an evolutionary robotics
experiment where they're going to evolve
behaviors for individuals in a
collective and reward or provide a
fitness value back to the group as a
whole perhaps not great from a public
relations point of view but these
roboticists chose Collective hunting so
here we go all right one of the reasons
why it's useful to work in a group if
you're a hunter is your prey is pretty
canny uh you'll remember I included this
slide to remind us of Alexander's book
on the principles of animal Locomotion
and also our discussion about how the
fact that brains tended to evolve to
orchestrate motion everything that the
brain does ultimately can be traced back
to evolutionary pressures for us to
coordinate how we move about in the real
world tell me about lions and Thompson's
gazel why do Li hunt as a pride rather
than as an
individual absolutely so imagine this
particular lion and this particular
gazelle and let's assume that this lion
is deprived of its Pride there's no
other there's none of its peers around
it's got to bring down the gazelle on
its
own what are the chances if you were
this lion and you were extremely hungry
you don't have time to wait to go find
your pride what do you
do a window catch it you've got a 4C
window to catch it so what do you do you
either know consciously or
subconsciously about how much time you
have what do you do you're the lion Sak
you sneak up on it we were just talking
about dogs and you want to have cats at
home they're very good at getting low
and sneaking up on things for this
reason so so this is just meant to
illustrate again there are certain
things that are just difficult to do on
your own literally if you can bring down
the gazelle in less than four seconds
knock yourself out if you can't or
that's a rare thing to do you have an
alternative strategy available to you
which is try and recruit your peers to
work collectively but how how do you
work collectively okay so we just spent
some time on the actual serengetti plane
in Africa in this paper from 1996 we're
going to travel to a virtual serengetti
that looks like this we've got 2 minutes
left so I'll just introduce uh the
playing field here we've got this plane
and we're going to evolve behaviors or
these researchers are going to evolve
behaviors for these four Lions and the
fitness a single number that we're going
to apply to all four Lions is how well
they bring down this virtual gazelle in
the virtual cere Getti plane again this
paper was published in '96 four years
before physics engines so these
researchers created their own very
simplified uh physical environment
simulated physical environment they plac
the four lions at random positions on
this 15 by 15 unit long uh virtual plane
they placed the gazelle at a random
position on this
plane what happens if the gazelle or the
lion gets to the edge of this plane
plane I don't know falls off the edge of
the world so these researchers took this
virtual serengetti plane and they folded
this two-dimensional sheet so that the
long top half came into contact with the
long bottom half so we now have a tube
and then they took that tube and bent it
so that the two ends of the tube touch
and we now have a donut or a toroid so I
want you to virtually imag I want you to
imagine four of these virtual lions
running on the surface of this toroid
same for the
gazelle like us they now live in a world
that has no edges they can run forever
everybody see that okay good mental
image to leave you with today you have a
quiz due tonight you're working on your
final project have a good rest of your
week see you Tuesday